# Lecture 4: Proteins as drug targets

* Mandatory offline activities of lecture 4:
  * Please read [the advanced scientific background information for Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2024](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/chemistry/2024/advanced-information/).
  * The blog *In the Pipepine*, created and maintained by Derek Lowe, is a popular blog among drug discovers. Read [his summary of the Chemistry Nobel Prize 2024](https://www.science.org/content/blog-post/2024-chemistry-nobel-computational-protein-design).
  * Having read the material, what is your take on the value of being able to predict protein structure for drug discovery? What is the most surprising learning for you? And do you have questions? [Submit your replies via this Google Form](https://forms.gle/JpTU7C5AmoQD2KJy8). *Deadline: latest Saturday following lecture 5*.
* Optional offline activity: Read the scientific background information for [Nobel Prize in Physics 2024](https://www.nobelprize.org/prizes/physics/2024/advanced-information/).

---

## Answers

### By reading the scientific information about the Nobel prize, as well as the blog post by Derek Lowe, what is your take on the value of predicting protein structure for drug discovery?

The most crucial aspect of designing protein-based drugs is ensuring a good interaction between the protein and the target ligand. Understanding the structure of the protein-ligand binding is the most important. AlphaFold's ability to accurately predict structures from sequences (with AlphaFold 3 being further optimized for ligand-binding interactions) greatly accelerates the protein drug design process. It allows for rapid elimination of unsuccessful designs, significantly speeding up drug development. This also enables researchers to explore more novel protein designs and make more drastic modifications, reducing the amount of reliance on existing, well-understood structures and high-cost trial-and-error experimental verifications.

### What's the most surprising learning for you?

For me, the most surprising learning is the long history of the field of protein design. As early as the last century, there was the successful design of zinc finger proteins, and in 2003, David Baker designed the Top7 protein, which had never appeared in the PDB. He later developed Rosetta, which used physical methods to optimize van der Waals forces and successfully achieved de novo designs of structurally complex proteins, even highly precise lipid-binding proteins. While AlphaFold is impressive, it wouldn't have reached its current level without the accumulation of extensive prior data. Additionally, AlphaFold's predictive ability is still limited when it comes to isolated proteins or those lacking sufficient multiple sequence alignment information. This indicates that a solid foundation in dynamics is still essential for innovatively designing proteins that do not exist in nature.

### If you have any questions and/or comments, please share them here.

I'm very sorry for the late submission of this offline activity. I have been suffering from a severe headache and fever since last Friday. Although it’s late, I still want to share my insights on this topic :D.
